All right.
So my name is Scott Stevenson.
I'm a software engineer on iAd Producer.
And I'm -- we've been working really
hard to do some really great stuff,
and I'm thrilled to show it to you today.
So let's get right into it.
So when we start out today,
I want to talk about a story.
And this story is about you.
And maybe right now you're working
on a mobile website or a desktop
website or maybe mobile advertising.
And you might be working with jQuery or
Prototype or maybe some Flash content.
And you're going along every day
kind of building up your skills.
And one day your boss comes
into your office and says,
hey, I've got some great news.
We've just started this new project
that I want you to start on right away.
And we're going to be building an iAd.
So two things might go through
your mind at this point.
First, you're thinking, wow,
this is really cool.
I've seen these iAds,
and they're highly interactive,
very animated, really using cutting-edge
WebKit technology.
But the other thing that
might occur to you is,
you know,
maybe I don't know how to build an iAd.
So you might be thinking, well, you know,
am I going to have time to
figure out how to build an iAd?
I might have to read some documentation,
and you might be a little concerned.
Am I going to have time to learn it and
then also make the ad I need to make?
So what I want to tell you is
that by the end of the talk,
two things.
One, you're going to realize that
you absolutely can do this.
And the reason is that iAd is
built on concepts and standards
that you're already familiar with,
such as HTML5 and CSS.
And the other thing is that iAd Producer,
I'm going to have convinced you that
not only is it really easy to use,
but you're going to be eager to
go download it and give it a try
because it's a lot of fun to use.
And we're going to show you how it works.
by looking at what an IAD is.
And as I mentioned before, iAds are rich,
interactive ads.
And this is maybe a little bit different
than what you might see on a website,
for example.
If you see sort of a static banner
image on a website and you tap on it,
you're sort of tossed out
to the advertiser's website.
And iAds are different.
So really what we're trying to
do here is we're trying to apply
the same level of quality that
we have for iPhones and iPads,
which are best-of-class devices,
and we want to apply that to advertising.
So we really want to make the best
possible experience for the user for ads.
And here on the screen,
you can see an example of this.
This is one of our sample ads
called Space Tours to Mars.
And it really pushes the edges of what
you can do with WebKit and what you
can do with iAds and iAd Producer.
And as I say,
it's all built on WebKit technologies.
And really, iAds are like mini-websites.
So again,
where many advertisements on websites,
you might tap on them and
you're sort of tossed out,
and that's the end of your
experience with the ad,
iAds are really immersive.
And you're in them for a while,
and as you can see on the screen,
you're looking through, playing games,
looking at different images.
So it's really,
it's a comprehensive experience.
And the other thing that's
really important about iAds
and sort of a differentiating
factor is that when you tap,
when the user taps on an iAd
at the bottom of the app,
they're not taken out of their app.
They're not, you know,
tossed out of context.
Whenever they're done with the iAd,
they hit the close button and they're
dropped right back into where they were.
So it's a really great,
fluid user experience.
And just to, let's take a quick
look at what an iAd is.
At the bottom, of course, we have WebKit,
which is powering this whole engine.
And on top of that,
we have this framework called iAd JS.
And iAd JS is a really,
really fantastic JavaScript framework.
It's built on some of
the concepts in UIKit,
which is the framework used
to build native iPhone apps.
And a lot of those concepts have
been sort of applied to JavaScript.
And on top of iAd JS,
we have iAd Producer.
So iAd Producer,
a couple things that you should know just
right off the bat about iAd Producer,
it's designed to be an expert ad creator,
iAd creator.
And we've invested a lot of time in
sort of adding all the functionality
that you'll need to make a
really great iAd and performance
tuning the ads that we generate.
And we think you'll really
be pleased with the results.
And we've also gone above and
beyond and tried to make the
experience such that you're,
realizing there's a
lot of really built-in,
fantastic features, built-in magic.
And we refer to this
as magic for magicians.
So,
When you start playing
around with the app,
you realize, wow, there's some really
fantastic animation features,
some really mind-blowing results.
But the thing I want to emphasize
here is that you're not locked into
the features that we've provided.
And that's what I mean
by magic for magicians.
If you're an expert, if you know CSS,
if you know WebKit,
you can just extend what we've provided
and sort of make it even better.
And the last thing I want to
emphasize here is that iAd
Producer is really designed to
be a full-cycle development tool.
So what that means is it can
help you through the entire
process of the initial concepts,
the prototyping,
getting things onto the screen,
adding animations,
customizing some of that stuff,
and then performance tuning
and ultimately deployment.
So it's really designed to
help you through the entire
process from start to finish.
So that's a look at what
iAd Producer is providing.
Let's look at what some of the
features are that deliver this.
So the first thing you'll notice
when you launch iAd Producer is
that it feels very familiar.
And the reason is we've based it on
a lot of the same concepts of other
Apple apps that you're familiar with.
So you're going to sit right
down and start a new project,
and you're going to kind of
instinctively know what to do.
In addition to being really easy to use,
we've made it really easy to
get really fantastic results.
So it's not just sort of
the essentials are easy,
it's that the really great
stuff is easy as well.
And we realized that once you've added
some of the objects from the object
library and you've added animations,
you may want to go a bit beyond and add
some custom animations or custom logic,
and we make that really easy as well.
So here's a screenshot of iAd Producer.
It's showing again our sample
space tours to Mars ad,
which you can open for
yourself and look at.
And here's a screenshot
of the animation feature,
which I personally think is one of
the best features of the application.
It's really fantastic.
If you've worked with
WebKit animations before,
the results are great,
but you really have to know
JavaScript really well.
And if you're using iAd Producer,
we just sort of do the hard work for you.
There's also an event system
that we'll be talking about and
Chi Wa will be demoing for you.
We have a comprehensive object library,
so a lot of the things
that you would need,
we just sort of have ready
right out of the box.
Some other handy things,
an object list which shows you
all the objects on your page.
And finally, we have an analytics editor,
the screenshot you see here.
And this is important because
it allows you to easily add the
required analytics to your ad so
that advertisers can understand how
the ad is performing on the network.
So that's a bit about
the built-in features.
And as I said,
we realize that you will want
to customize ads very often.
To do that,
you would use the iAd JS framework
sort of as your basis.
That's the way that you can easily
add new behavior and new content
to your ad programmatically.
You can also add custom CSS styles
and custom CSS keyframes.
So again,
we have a fantastic animation system
that is really super easy to use,
but if you're one of those magicians,
you're able to add your own animations
just by importing a CSS file.
And we provide a code editor built into
iAd Producer so that you can just sort of
jump right in and edit the stuff in line.
However,
if you have an editor you really like,
you are more than
welcome to use that one,
and we'll just bring the content
back in when you're done editing it.
In addition to the main iAd
Producer app on the Mac,
we also have a companion
iOS app called iAd Tester.
And the most important role that
iAd Tester is fulfilling is that
it's allowing you to test the
ad live on an actual iOS device.
And this is really important
because as you're testing the ad,
as you're working on it
on your high-end laptop,
high-end desktop,
obviously the performance characteristics
are a little bit different with a machine
like that compared to a mobile device.
Mobile devices have more constrained
resources because they're handheld.
In addition to testing
the ad on the iOS device,
you can also use iAd
Tester in the simulator,
which is really great if you're making
a bunch of sort of quick changes and
you don't necessarily want to go back
to your iOS device every single time.
And in both cases,
whether you're using iAdTester on
an iOS device or on a simulator,
you can use our built-in
remote web inspector.
And this is great because it helps
you understand sort of how the ad is
performing in real-world circumstances.
So that's sort of a high-level
overview of the features.
Let's choose one particular set of
features here that's really interesting.
It's the animation system and
the built-in object library.
Let's look a little bit closer at that.
And what we're aiming for here
is that you're going to start,
you're going to sit down at iAd
Producer and you're going to
start adding images and animate,
excuse me,
objects and animations to your page.
And we want you to walk away
with the impression that you can
make world-class rich media ads
without having to write code.
It doesn't mean you're
not allowed to write code.
It doesn't mean that you
would never write code.
It's that you don't need that
to see really great results.
If you have something
custom you want to add,
you're welcome to write code.
So let's start by looking at actions,
and when I talk about animations,
really I'm talking about
actions and actions are broken
into two separate categories.
First category,
our visual animation effects.
As you see on the screen here,
this is the spaceship flying
around and spinning out.
So a lot of these things would
be like rotations and fades,
drop effects, that kind of thing.
And then we have a second
category of actions that we
think of as functional actions.
And on the screen here,
you can see we've used an action to set
to allow the user to set the current
image as their iOS device wallpaper.
And the great thing about
this is that you're basically
adding interaction to your ad,
again, without having to write any code.
We've done all the hard work for you.
This is really, really great.
In addition to one-off actions,
sort of animations and
functional actions,
we also have a concept
called action lists.
And the way to think of action
lists is they're precisely
timed groups of actions.
So a really good example of
this is if you want to do a page
build-in or a page build-out,
you would create an action list that
has all those individual animations
and you can time them all together so
they look really smooth when you're
transitioning from one page to another.
And just to sort of put your mind at ease
if you're looking at this and saying,
ooh, what if this isn't doing
exactly what I need?
If you create an action list,
you actually have the capability
using iAd JS to control the
action list in JavaScript.
So again, we allow plenty of
room for customization.
Now you might be thinking, okay,
this animation system is great,
these actions are great,
but how do I launch these things?
What do I have to do to actually
get these things running?
Well, we thought of that,
and we added a convention in
here in iProducer called Events.
If you're familiar
with JavaScript events,
the concept is very similar.
We added a few things on top just
to make it more convenient and make
it integrate better with iProducer.
But essentially the system that we're
offering here is like code-free coding.
So remember before when I showed the
wallpaper and the user tapping the
button and set the user's wallpaper?
Well, that's what's going on
here with the event system.
So in this particular screenshot,
I have an example of when this
user event touch up inside,
which is the UIKit parlance
for the user's tap the button.
I've decided on touch up inside,
I want to play a video,
and you're off and running.
And you can also start individual
actions or you can start entire
action lists based on user events.
And if for some reason you don't
see the exact action you want or
you don't have an action list sort
of situation that you want to use,
you also can use an event to
just launch arbitrary JavaScript.
So at that point,
the doors are just kind of
blown off in this feature,
and you can do whatever you need
to do based on a user event.
So, of course,
actions and animations wouldn't
be really useful if you didn't
have anything on a page.
So we have a built-in object library
that has a lot of content that you
would need right out of the box.
And it works really, really well.
And we've divided conceptually the object
library up into four major categories.
The first, of course, is the essentials.
And these would be like buttons
and text fields and sliders,
all those things that you
just know you're going to need
just sort of as a foundation.
In addition to that,
we have a whole set of media views.
So,
if you're playing back video and audio,
this is great because you don't
have to worry about which version
of Safari the user is running.
We handle all those details for
you and make sure everything's
buffered and all that kind of stuff.
So it's really, really easy to use.
We also have a set of views
that are collection views.
So a really good example of this is
if you have a series of movie posters
that you want to show to the user,
perhaps to let them set their
background image for one of them.
The collection view will allow you to
see the background image of the user.
So you can see the
background image of the user.
And then you can also use the
collection view to just sort of
dump in a bunch of images and
swipe through them and very easy to
display a large amount of content.
The fourth category is this category we
kind of think of as specialized views.
And a really great example
of this is our WebGL view.
If you haven't seen WebGL before,
the results are fantastic.
It's a 3D model inside of a web view.
And it's really, really impressive.
But the catch is that typically,
if you're using WebGL content,
you have to be an OpenGL programmer
and you have to know JavaScript.
So typically, it's really,
really easy to use.
So if you're using WebGL content,
you have to be an OpenGL programmer
and you have to know JavaScript.
So typically, it's really,
really easy to use.
It's pretty hard to get up
and running with this stuff,
but we've made it really easy.
All you have to do is open the object
library and drag in WebGL view,
then add your 3D model
and it will just work.
It's fantastic.
So this is the email I got this morning.
So this gives you a preview of the
app that I'm going to build here.
And I already have iProducer installed.
You can download it from
developer.apple.com.
Let me double click to launch.
So on the welcome screen,
you'll be asked to choose either.
iPhone or iPad.
I'm going to choose an
iPad for this project.
But the technique I'm going
to show you is going to work
as well on an iPhone project.
So what you're seeing here
is an overview of an iAd.
On this side,
you see a banner placeholder.
When a user clicks on a banner,
they will be lead to a splash page where
they will see a quick introduction.
And then after that,
they will be automatically
guided to the menu page.
From there,
they could explore one of the pages here.
So like what Scott mentioned earlier,
an iAd is kind of like a mini website.
So before I get started,
let me go to the Inspector panel
and set the minimum required
iOS version to be 5.0,
so that I can show you one
other cool feature later on.
And let's get started with the banner.
Let me double click on the placeholder.
And what you're seeing now
is the template chooser.
On the top here is a template
for the standard banner.
The bottom is for the full screen banner.
I'm going to choose a
blank standard banner.
This has been created for me and
let me double click to edit it.
Right now it doesn't have anything on it.
So what I'm going to do is
to import some image asset.
To do so,
I could go to your top menu bar.
Under file,
there's an import asset option.
So my asset is already there.
I'm going to choose this folder.
So the asset library just
opened up and it showed me the
list of assets I just imported.
So I'm going-- like
this is a banner logo.
I could just drag it to the banner.
So as I position this image,
like the alignment guide is show up to
help me position the image precisely.
And I can also do a multi-selection
and then drag it to the
banner and it will just work.
So I added all my image assets.
Let me go set the background so
that it matches more the branding.
I could do that by going
to the inspector panel.
And there's a background inspector here.
So I don't want color field anymore.
I want to change it to gradient.
And I don't want linear either.
I want radio.
Let me change the color to white
on this one and coffee on this one.
Thank you.
So at this point,
we have a banner pretty much ready.
Let's take this further
by adding some animation.
To add animation,
let me highlight the object
that I would like to animate.
And let's see.
You can add animation by
going to the action panel.
And there's a plus button here.
Clicking here will show you
the list of action that you can
apply to the highlighted object.
I'm going to add a pop-in animation.
And it just shows you a
preview of the animation.
You can look at the animation again
by dragging the yellow two-tip here.
Or you can, there's a play button here,
you can also click on it and
look at the whole sequence again.
As you may notice,
right now the animation is
happening one after the other.
I could make them happen at the
same time by highlighting the action
and drag them on top to the other.
And let me do a preview.
So all actions are starting
at the same time now.
So that's it for my banner.
Let me go back to Overview.
And I'm going to build the content page.
I'm going to choose a blank template.
So the very first thing I want to do is
to set the image background to this page.
Let me go to the Inspector panel.
And right now, it doesn't have anything.
I'm going to choose Image.
And the background should be this one.
Cool.
So let me go back to my asset library.
Among the assets I import earlier,
there's a 3D model
that represents Cupcake
International's signature cupcake.
And I could just-- like an image asset,
I could just drag it to the page.
It's so kind of small.
Let me resize it.
And the 3D model just magically
got rendered using WebGL.
And you don't have to write a single
line of code to do the rendering.
At this point, let me simulate it and
show you how it works.
Before I do that,
let me change this to iPad so that
we can look at the whole thing.
So here's our beautiful banner.
If I tap on it,
it will show me the content page.
I could drag it around to look at
the cupcake at a different angle.
I could go up and down.
And if I do a pinch,
I could zoom it in and out.
So at this point,
we have an interactive object,
and you don't have to write
a single line of code.
You don't have to know
anything about WebGL,
and you have an interactive
object at your fingertip.
That's pretty cool.
Thank you.
So we have a really cool object.
Now let me add a tweet button so that
people can spread the word about it.
To do that,
I'm going to the object library.
You can do that by clicking
the object button here.
I'm going to choose a button.
And I'm going to move it to the bottom.
To make it a tweet button,
I will go to the Inspector panel.
And under the Event Inspector,
I see that there's no action currently
associated with TouchUp Inside.
If I click on the drop-down menu,
it will view the list of actions
that I could associate with it.
For this purpose,
I'm going to add a Compose Tweet action.
It showed me a list of options
for this particular action.
I'm going to set a default message.
Cupcake is coming to town.
So that should be our tree button.
And let me work on the aesthetic of
the button by changing the background.
So I already have a sprite
image for this button.
Oh, let me first remove the default text.
And now we can set the image background.
And that's our normal style.
We also want to set
the highlighted style.
We can do that by clicking on this
drop-down menu and select Highlighted.
And we also wanted to show us an image.
Since this is a sprite image,
we change our background position
by double-clicking on it.
And we can just drag it and get
the right background position.
So our tweet button should be ready.
Let me simulate and
show you how it worked.
The tab and hole will show
me the highlighted state.
And it will launch the tweet sheet.
And I could type in some message here.
And if I click send,
the tweet will be on its way.
So that's it for my demo.
I just showed you how to
build an interactive page
and animate a background,
all without writing a
single line of code.
I'm going to bring Scott back,
and he's going to show you
more about iAd Producer.
So that was awesome.
Thank you, Chi Waai.
By the way, when you later on go down,
download iAd Producer,
definitely try out the WebGL stuff.
It's really, really awesome.
And the thing,
we don't have time to demo today,
but is particularly impressive
is you can actually animate those
things using the animation system.
So it's tons of fun to play around with.
So let's move on.
So what we've looked at so far is
sort of adding your basic object
library items to the page and
adding some animations to those
things and just tweaking the styles,
the things to get the
basics up and running,
the essential things you'll need.
And we realize, though,
that you're going to probably want to
customize some of the things that we
have built in and add custom behavior.
So how do we go about doing that?
You're thinking, hey, this stuff's great.
I want to add custom control.
Or, excuse me, add customization.
And one of the ways you'll do
that is by using JavaScript,
of course.
All of iAd is built on JavaScript.
[Transcript missing]
And iAd View,
there are sort of two high-level
responsibilities it has.
First is to control the presentation
of the content on the page,
and the other is to intercept user
events and dispatch them appropriately.
So again, remember when I talked about
the event inspector and when
Chi Wa showed you the event inspector,
that entire machinery
is handled by iAd View.
And when you want to go above and
beyond the presentation and the event
handling that's built into iAd View,
we also offer a property
on iAd View called layer.
And potentially this is a little
confusing because obviously there
are a lot of things called layers.
You know, there's Photoshop layers and
there's core animation layers.
But in this case,
specifically what we're talking about
with iAd View is the layer property
is the DOM element on the page.
So if you're a web developer
and you're used to,
you know,
interacting directly with DOM elements
and you want that level of control,
all you need to do is get a reference
to the iAd View and the layer
property will be that DOM element.
So it's really, really handy.
And something to keep in mind, too,
is that we've set up a really
handy syntax to get a reference
to all the views on your page.
So what you can do is you add
a button or you add an image
view to your Canvas page,
select it in a Canvas,
and if you open the inspector,
you see a text field at
the very top called outlet.
When you set that outlet,
you automatically have access
to that outlet in code using
the syntax on the screen.
This, that view controller, that outlet,
and then the name of the view.
And just as an extra convenience,
when you open one of the
code files we generate,
you'll see in the comments of
that code file the entire list of
outlets that are available to you.
So that's really easy to do.
And just as a side note,
this isn't just a convenience,
but it's also potentially much
faster than sort of crawling
your way through the DOM using,
you know,
looking for a particular ID or class.
This is really the way to do it.
So in addition to JavaScript,
you have a lot of customization
options using CSS.
and and
The way you do this is you can
bring in just a regular CSS file.
It doesn't have to be special
in any particular way.
Drag a CSS file into the asset
library as shown here on the screen.
And the CSS file can contain
one of two types of content.
The first can just be custom styles.
So, you know,
you could create a custom class that has
some custom CSS styles that you want.
And the message here is not that,
you know, we offer a lot of editing
opportunities in the inspector.
So you can change the font,
you can change fonts
and colors and images.
Chi Wai showed you some of that.
He'll show you more.
But we don't expose every single
CSS property in inspectors,
obviously, because there's so many.
So if you have something
really custom you want to do,
again, if you're a magician,
you can do that.
You can add that to your
CSS file and bring it in.
And in addition to styles, you can also,
as I mentioned before,
add custom keyframe animations.
So here in the screenshot,
you can see we brought in
a CSS file and we've said,
I'd like to use the
keyframe set particle shift.
And that does some really super
fancy spaceship animation.
And the other major point here is
that in addition to sort of bringing
in a static file and setting a class
on one of the objects on the page,
you can also just update CSS properties
live in JavaScript the same way
you would do if you were doing
kind of lower level JavaScript.
And again, you would use the,
when you had a view reference,
you just get access to the layer
property that I mentioned before,
which is the DOM element,
and you would just set those
CSS properties the way you
would on any other DOM element.
So it's really, really handy,
really easy to use.
With that, I'm going to bring up our
demo person extraordinaire,
Chi Waileau, and he's going to show you
how to customize your project.
Hello again.
I'm back to show you how to
customize your iAd with your
own JavaScript and CSS code.
As you may notice,
when Scott took the stage,
I added a few pages to our project,
and there are two new pages here.
So there's a teaser page.
It's a promotion page Cupcake
International want to show
before the shop is open.
The other page is called Launch.
It's a buy a dozen get a dozen
free page and we only want to
show it after the shop is open.
Back to this page we worked together.
I added this new button
called Gap Promotion.
Depending on the view date,
we want to route the user to either
the teaser page or the launch page.
And we're going to write a
little bit of JavaScript code
to take care of that logic.
To get started with coding,
there's a Code button here.
If I click on it,
it will launch the code editor
Scott showed you earlier.
On the left here, on this side,
you will see the list of
possible files you can edit.
Under banner is the file that scope
under banner that only apply to banner.
Under ad unit is the one that
apply to other content pages.
Global.css is the CSS style sheet
that got applied to all content pages.
Global.javascript is basically the same
idea but applied just to JavaScript.
We have a couple lines of code here.
Open date here basically defined
the open date of the cupcake shop.
Right now it's set to be 2013.
And current date basically defined
the current view date of the ad.
Now that we have the valuable setup,
let me go back to the application.
And we want to set up the buttons
such that on TouchUp Inside we
could route to either the
launch page or the teaser page.
To do that,
let me go to the event inspector.
On TouchUp Inside, we want to choose X.
to choose to execute some JavaScript.
And if I click on this arrow button here,
it will take me back to the code editor.
And on TouchUp Insight,
we would like to execute
this line of JavaScript code.
The first part is basically--
the first part is the function
that handled the page transition.
And the second part basically
handled the logic that switches
between launch page or teaser page.
That should get us set up already.
And let me simulate and see how it works.
Since the open date is set
to be sometime in 2013,
clicking on the Get Promotion button
should take me to the teaser page.
And here it is.
And let me test the other use case
by setting the date to be maybe 2010,
so that it's in the past.
So it will guarantee
to show the other page.
Let me simulate it again.
So clicking here to show me the launch.
So here's our launch page.
So here's our JavaScript customization.
Now I'm going to move on to show
you how to customize your CSS.
And again,
so what we want to do here is to
apply image texture to this title.
First, let me go to the inspector.
And under the property,
we want to set something for the
CSS costume so that we could use
it in our CSS selector later.
And I'm going to just say cupcake title.
And now I can go back to my co-editor.
We can open up global.css.
And this will be the CSS style
we want to apply to the title.
And it used to do the
background image texture for me.
And let me simulate
and make sure it works.
And here it is.
So that's it for my CSS customization.
I'm going to bring Scott back,
and he's going to talk about
performance and optimization.
Thank you.
Okay, that was awesome.
Thank you, Chi Waai.
So as we're sort of advancing
through our project,
we're working on our iAd,
so far we've got some of the
basic concepts on the page,
we've got some objects and some
of the animations up and running,
and then we've customized
by adding some custom code,
as Chi Waai showed you,
to show a different page
based on the current date,
and then also customizing some of
the CSS using a special CSS property.
And now we're at the point
where we've got sort of the
basic parts of the ad running,
and we've got customization,
and now we want to start looking at
tuning performance and ultimately
deploying the ad on the network.
So the thing that you want the user
to think when they're using the ad,
and really subconsciously,
is that you want them to feel like
it's a very fluid user experience,
that it's very fast,
and it's a gratifying experience
because they're not waiting for anything
to draw on the screen or download.
And in order to do that,
there are three main
things to keep in mind.
The first thing is memory consumption.
You really want to minimize
memory consumption.
And we're going to talk about some
of the ways that you can do that,
but ultimately it comes down to
how many views you have on the
page and what their content is.
The second tier is drawing performance.
So you really want to be conscious
of the drawing performance.
Again, because they're mobile devices,
they don't have the same caliber
of performance as a dedicated
laptop or desktop device.
So there's different
performance characteristics.
And in particular with drawing,
what you really want
to do is think about,
what can I do to not draw?
What can you do to avoid
drawing altogether?
Because the fastest drawing, of course,
is the drawing you never do.
And then the third thing,
in addition to memory
and drawing performance,
is fetching.
And again, because iAds are
network-connected content,
and as the user proceeds through the ad,
they're downloading
more and more content,
you want to keep in mind that every
time you load new content onto a page,
every time you arrive onto a page,
there's an HTTP connection
that goes out to the iAd server
to download that content.
And the more times you have to go
back to the server and get something,
the slower the performance is.
We're going to look at some of the
details of how to mitigate that.
But that might sound
kind of intimidating.
There's a lot of things to keep in mind.
Those are potentially some
pretty intimidating problems.
But I have some really good news for you.
We've worked really,
really hard to solve the
big problems for you.
So out of the box,
there are three things we
handle for you that you don't
have to worry about at all.
The first is that we minimize
and concatenate all the
scripts in the project.
And the really awesome thing about this
is that it's not just the stuff that we
generate as part of making the project,
as part of generating that code.
But it's also anything you've brought in.
So if you've added your
own JavaScript code,
you've brought in a custom
game or something like that,
we will concatenate and minimize
all the scripts for you.
You don't have to worry about it.
It's just completely off the table.
The other thing we work really hard
to do is make sure that all the
images are preloaded appropriately
by default for every page.
So a really good example of this is,
again,
going back to the image gallery control,
we make sure by the time the
user arrives on the page that
the first image is loaded.
The first image in that image gallery
is already visible to avoid any kind
of flicker or anything popping in.
So we're really smart about
realizing which things we need to
preload appropriately if you're
using the built-in object library.
The third thing we do is we monitor
which views are on the page.
And we're really careful to set
the display property to none for
any view that is no longer needed.
So this is great because it, again,
reduces memory usage.
And it also avoids redrawing that view
when it's really not needed anymore.
So that dovetails nicely into
your part of the equation.
What do you have to think about
in terms of performance tuning?
Well, one really easy one is to keep
in mind that when you're bringing
in assets into a project,
you've got assets from an artist
or maybe you're working on assets,
one of the things you should really
keep in mind is that there's a hard
limit on pixel size of an image.
And in this case,
it's 2,000 pixels in either dimension.
So 2,000 pixels high, 2,000 pixels wide.
If it's bigger than that,
you're actually going to exceed
the limitations of OpenGL.
And you'll get a tiling effect.
It's not a very pleasant user experience.
You want to work really,
really hard to make sure
you don't exceed this limit.
The other thing that's
important to think about is,
in this, you can see on the screenshot,
we've got 24 cupcakes on the screen.
And initially, it might seem, wow,
it would be really flexible if each
one of these is a separate image,
each one of these is a separate cupcake,
because then you don't
have to worry about,
you can manipulate them in animation,
that sort of thing.
But the thing you want to keep in
mind is that if there are 24 cupcakes,
you have to download 24 cupcakes.
And that, again,
goes back to that fetch consideration,
where you don't want to be grabbing
a whole bunch of little images.
So when you have an opportunity,
such as in the screenshot,
to combine them,
that may be a really good decision.
Now, there might be a little bit of
a contradiction here between,
well, don't make a really big image and
don't have a bunch of little images,
but it really is,
there's a balancing act,
and you want to do some performance
tuning to figure out what's right for
each particular page in your project.
And finally,
remember how I mentioned that we're
really careful to remove views from
the page using display none when we're,
you know, in the built-in object library
when they're not needed anymore?
If you're adding custom
views to your page,
you want to make sure
to do the same thing.
Again,
the great thing about this is if you
know a view is no longer needed and you
can just kind of toss it off the page,
it's not going to take any memory
and there won't be any drawing
implications for that view.
So at this point, we've, again,
put together the essential
parts of our project,
added objects and animations.
We've customized the JavaScript and
added some custom CSS properties.
And we've sort of moved into
the performance tuning part of
our project and addressed some
of those performance concerns.
And Chi Waai is going to show
you a demo about that so you can
get kind of a better grasp on it.
But following that, we're ready to launch
our ad on the network.
You know, this is really exciting because
we get to see the payoff of the
thing we've been working on.
We get to push it out to millions
and millions of iOS users.
And it's really the exciting part of the,
one of the most exciting
parts of the project.
exciting parts of the project.
But what do you have to do at this phase?
Because we want to be really
conscious of the user experience,
we want to make sure that we
follow all the steps to get a
really great result on the server.
So the six steps to keep in mind,
they're pretty simple.
The first is just to double
check as a really rough cut.
In iAd Producer,
you want to check the validations
window to make sure there weren't any
oversights such as maybe you accidentally
added an image that's just a little
too big or you're missing an object.
We'll help you visualize those
particular issues really easily.
You just go to the window menu
and choose project validation.
And you can see if there are any
sort of rough cut validations
you want to take a look at.
And I cannot possibly overemphasize
how important the second step is.
This is the single most
important item on this slide.
As you're working on
your project continually,
but particularly right at the
end when you're ready to deploy,
you really, really want to do a ton of
testing on an iOS device.
And again,
I cannot understand how important it
is to keep in mind that the performance
characteristics are different,
not just on the device itself,
the memory and the drawing performance,
but also you really want to make sure
that the performance is great over 3G or
4G as well as Wi-Fi because you can have
a much different experience depending
on network latency and the availability
of cell towers and that sort of thing.
So this is really, really important.
The third thing, just to sort of state
the obvious probably,
you need to have an IAD account
so that you can upload your
content to the IAD test server.
And once you've established that
account and you've tested locally and
you've checked all the validations,
you can go ahead and upload
the ad to the iAd Test Server.
And you can do that right
from within iAd Producer.
Again,
it's a full-cycle development tool,
so we handle that right in the app.
And once you've done that,
you've completed uploading the ad,
we'll send you an email.
And the email will contain a link
to that ad on the test server.
All you need to do is open that
email on your mobile device,
tap it, and just, again,
make sure you have iAd Tester
installed on that device.
Tap that URL,
and we'll just load that ad up
live right on your iOS device.
So it will be the exact same
experience as the user will have
when they view the ad on the network.
So, again, you're just testing to make
sure this is going to be a
really fluid user experience.
And I just want to quadruple
emphasize here that not only
are you testing the iOS device,
you know, maybe on your Wi-Fi connection,
but go out into the wild and
make sure that out on a 3G
connection or a 4G connection,
you're getting the performance
you expect because that's,
again,
really important for the user experience.
So to sort of give you the specifics
and show you how this works in
the final stages of your ad,
I'm going to bring Chi Waai Lau back up.
And he is going to show you
performance and deployment.
Right there.
I'm back to show you how to benchmark
your iAd and get ready for deployment.
So at this point,
our ad looked pretty solid.
And it's time to measure how much
memory is using and monitor the
network traffic and make sure it's
not like-- make sure it's optimized.
To do that, let me simulate my IF first.
To measure the memory usage of this iAd,
I could go to the Activity Monitor,
which comes with all MacOSX.
And the process we would like
to listen to is Ask Sheet.
So under this column, with memory,
it will give you an estimation how
much memory the iAd is consuming.
So right now it's around 67,
which is good.
So we want to keep it
under 100 megabytes.
Now I want to show you how to
monitor the network traffic.
Now let me go back to the app.
Under Windows, there's a debugger option.
So it launched WebKit Inspector.
It's the same inspector you see
from Safari or WebKit Nightly.
So for those who have done
a lot of web development,
this should be really familiar to you.
And there's a network tab here.
And it shows me the list of things
you have downloaded for my iAd.
But it only applied to the first page.
Let me clear it.
and start recording by clicking
here and if I go back to my ad,
I will click the promotion button
and it will open up the promotion
page and I could see all the
network traffic on that page.
There's a lot of things
being shown up here.
Let me just filter it by images.
And currently there's 12
different images being downloaded
for this particular page.
And as Scott mentioned earlier,
it spawned a lot of network requests,
which could potentially be
really bad for people willing
to add over a mobile network.
We can optimize it by compositing all
these mini cupcakes into just one image.
Let me go ahead and do that.
First, I'm going to remove
the individual images.
And I already have the
composite image ready.
I'll just drag it in.
So it used to look identical.
Let me go back and simulate.
We don't want to look at that.
Let me clear that and start recording.
And go to the promotion page.
Filter by image.
And we reduce the number of
network requests by compositing
all the images into just one image.
And we only have one request.
So that means there's less overhead
coming from downloading images.
That's pretty good.
And now it's time for us to share
the ad so that the campaign manager
could take a look at it and we could
test it over 3G or other environment,
different devices.
To do that,
we can go to the export option.
And there's a upload to
iAd test server option.
And it will ask you for your iAd account.
And once you type that in,
it will basically send you the ad.
And then the iAd to
Apple-owned test server.
And it will send you
an email in response.
And the email looks like this.
It contains the link to your iAd.
And if you open the link
on your iPhone or iPad,
it will basically show you the ad
just as people look at the ad live.
So that's it for deployment.
I'm going to bring Scott back,
and he's going to sum
up our presentation.
Thank you.
So here we are at the end
of our little journey.
We've moved through the entire
process of creating our ad.
We've added the content
that we want to the ad,
added animations to them,
so all those results
are really fantastic.
Customized it with custom
JavaScript and custom CSS.
You saw how easy that was to do.
Tuned the performance and ultimately
uploaded the ad to the test service
that we can test on an iOS device live.
So that's great.
And I think you can probably see at this
point that it really is very easy to use,
very easy to use.
It's very easy to just jump
in there and try things out.
And I bet all of you will want
to go to developer.apple.com
today and give it a try yourself.
So just a few last
thoughts to leave you with.
Like I said,
just go ahead and download iAd Producer.
If you have an iOS developer account,
super easy, developer.apple.com.
And built into the iAd Producer disk
image are a bunch of sample projects.
And it's pretty much the
ones you saw here today,
the Space Tours to Mars ad and
a variant of the Cupcake ad.
And those are really helpful
because we've worked hard to hit a
bunch of different areas of iAds.
You can download those,
see how they work, and apply those same
concepts to your own ads.
And after you've had a chance to
download iAd Producer and try it out,
let us know what you think.
You know, we're really interested in
what is working well for you,
what we should improve on,
what we should, you know, work towards.
And to do that,
you can email our friend and colleague,
Mark Malone.
He's the iTechnologies Evangelist,
mgm at apple.com.
There's a whole bunch of documentation.
I've just highlighted one of them here.
It's the iAd Producer help at
help.apple.com slash iAd Producer.
And there are iAd Forms
and iAd Producer topics on
the Apple Developer Forms.
And that is it.
Thank you very much for coming.
I really appreciate it.
And I hope you enjoy iAd Producer.